Although lettuce is traditionally known to have hypnotic and sedative effects, to date, only a few studies have documented its sleep-promoting effects and elucidated the related mechanisms. We aimed to investigate the sleep-promoting activity of Heukharang lettuce leaf extract (HLE) with increased lactucin content, known as a sleep-promoting substance in lettuce, in animal models. To evaluate the effect of HLE on sleep behavior, analysis of electroencephalogram (EEG), gene expression of brain receptors, and activation mechanisms using antagonists were investigated in rodent models. High-performance liquid chromatography analysis showed that HLE contained lactucin (0.78 mg/g of extract) and quercetin-3-glucuronide (1.3 mg/g of extract). In the pentobarbital-induced sleep model, the group administered 150 mg/kg of HLE showed a 47.3% increase in sleep duration time as compared to the normal group (NOR). The EEG analysis showed that the HLE significantly increased non-rapid eye movement (NREM), where delta waves were improved by 59.5% when compared to the NOR, resulting in increased sleep time. In the caffeine-induced arousal model, HLE significantly decreased the awake time increased by caffeine administration (35.5%) and showed a similar level to NOR. In addition, HLE increased the gene and protein expression of gamma-aminobutyric acid receptor type A (GABAA), GABA type B, and 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin) receptor 1A. In particular, in comparison to the NOR, the group administered 150 mg/kg HLE showed an increase in expression levels of GABAA and protein by 2.3 and 2.5 times, respectively. When the expression levels were checked using GABAA receptor antagonists, HLE showed similar levels to NOR, as the sleep duration was reduced by flumazenil (45.1%), a benzodiazepine antagonist.