Obesity is a condition that shows an imbalance between height and weight due to the accumulation of fat tissue in the body resulting in excess body weight that exceeds the ideal size. Obesity in Indonesia has become a national problem that must be addressed immediately. This study was to determine the effectiveness of aerobic exercise (Zumba) and cinnamon bark tea on body fat composition in obese women. This study was conducted on 75 respondents consisting of 36 aerobics (Zumba) and 39 people for 24 days with purposive accidental sampling. This type of research is a Quasy Experiment with a pre-posttest design with the control group. Statistical test using paired sample t-test and independent sample t-test with an alpha value of 0.05 (a = 0.05) was conducted. The results showed that the average body fat before aerobic exercise (Zumba) was 36.14%, and the average after aerobic exercise was 35.59%, so the difference between the two was 0.55%; paired t-test p-value = 0.001. The average body fat composition before drinking cinnamon bark tea was 38.46%, and the average body fat composition after drinking cinnamon bark was 37.82%. So the mean difference between the two is 0.64%. Paired t-test p-value = 0.002. Unpaired t-test to compare the two groups, and the mean difference between the two was 2.23%, with a p = 0.001. The study concluded that aerobic exercise (Zumba) and drinking cinnamon bark tea can reduce body fat, but what is more effective is drinking cinnamon bark tea. The study recommended that reducing body fat in obesity will be even better when the aerobic exercise routine is accompanied by regular consumption of cinnamon bark 2 times a day for 60 minutes.