
            The study aims to evaluate the long-term use of chamomile for prevention of Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD) symptom relapse in patients who have been previously diagnosed with moderate-to-severe GAD. Eligible participants undergo 12 weeks of open-label therapy with chamomile pharmaceutical grade extract 1500 mg, followed by a double-blind randomized controlled trial. The primary outcome is time to relapse during continuation therapy, analyzed using Cox proportional hazards. Secondary outcomes include the proportion who relapsed, treatment-emergent adverse events, and vital sign changes.
            Out of the 179 enrolled participants, 93 were responders and agreed to continue in the double-blind randomized controlled trial. During follow-up, a numerically greater number of placebo-switched (25.5%) than chamomile-continuation (15.2%) participants relapsed. Mean time to relapse was 11.4 ± 8.4 weeks for chamomile and 6.3 ± 3.9 weeks for placebo, with a hazard of relapse that was non-significantly lower for chamomile (0.52; 95% CI, 0.20--1.33; P = 0.16).
            However, during follow-up, chamomile participants maintained significantly lower GAD symptoms than placebo (P = 0.0032), with significant reductions in body weight (P = 0.046) and mean arterial blood pressure (P = 0.0063). Both treatments had similar low adverse event rates. The study suggests that long-term chamomile use is safe and effective in reducing moderate-to-severe GAD symptoms, but does not significantly reduce the rate of relapse.   