 Holy Basil or Tulsi is widely used for cooking various dishes around South Asia, especially India and Sri Lanka where it holds religious significance too. It has a distinctive yet balanced aromatic flavour that adds an earthy touch to soups & stews while enhancing vegetable curries' depth of taste as well adding tanginess in fish preparations like grilled tuna or salmon, among many others due its inherent medicinal properties which could lead one think about health benefits when using it.

 The entire plant, including leaves and tender stems are used for culinary purposes. Leaves can be chopped fresh to use it on top of foods after they have been cooked or dried into powder form which could later then stored for future usage too when needed; stem tips also add a sweet spice profile along with that familiar Basil flavor we all know and love while seeds contain high oil content used commonly as a base ingredient in various cooking oils & ghee products providing added depth of flavour to the meals being made at homes.

 A few culinary tips on incorporating Holy basil into your dishes includes making a chutney with fresh leaves, adding it along-with other spices for enhanced taste; mixing them in soups such as lentils and dals which will give depth of flavor due to the sweet undertone present within its profile or blending tender stems tips together creating an entirely new side dish altogether! You can also infuse ointment with dried leaves, seeds into butter or cooking oil for a unique take in your meals.

 While Holy Basil is relatively safe and has numerous health benefits when consumed as food due to its antioxidant properties among other things; excessive intake may lead you feeling queasy stomach pain/indigestion issues because of the presence certain essential oils that might affect digestive system directly especially if someone consumes it regularly without any breaks in between usage. Therefore, moderation is key when using Holy Basil effectively for culinary purposes as well!